README.md, before:

# Social Media Privacy Corpus
Privacy class project to use machine learning to build a social media privacy corpus. Involves building and evaluating various classifiers and then using statistical methods and clustering to perform analysis on the resulting corpus.

## Contributors
Michael Meli (@[mjmeli](https://github.com/mjmeli)) and Kylie Geller (@[kgeller](https://github.com/kgeller))

## Requirements
Python 3 only

## Setup (Ubuntu)
Install system level prerequisites:

    sudo apt-get install build-essential python3-dev python3-tk

Recommend using a virtual environment:

    virtualenv -p python3 venv
    source venv/bin/activate

Make sure you have all `pip` requirements:

    pip install -r requirements.txt

Download English NLP model for `spacy`:

    python -m spacy.en.download

If using anything that touches the API, put API key in a file named api_key:

    echo "API-KEY-HERE" > api_key

## Usage
See the sections below for more information. Also see the `README.md` in the `scripts` folder for even more info.

For a quick look at usage, look at the script `classify.sh`.

### Classifying
Each step of the process is broken up into individual scripts that must be run sequentially. Use the following order:

1. `get_training_data.py`: downloads the training data specified in `training_data/*.ids` - **API access**
2. `preprocess_training_data.py`: preprocess the training data downloaded
3. `build_classifier.py`: builds the classifier
4. `get_test_data.py`: downloads the test data specified in `test_data/ids` - **API access**
5. `preprocess_test_data.py`: preprocess the test data downloaded
6. `classify_test_data.py`: uses the built classifier to classify the downloaded and preprocessed test data

### Analysis
Once the training data is downloaded, you can compare the different classifiers we evaluated:

    python compare_classifiers.py [number of folds for cross-validation]

If you ran through step 6 above, the classification results will be in `data/classified`. The YES results must be moved to the corpus folder and renamed as `ids` for the following step.

    python summarize_corpus.py

## Don't want to download data?
We've provided the data that we downloaded (over 11,000 articles!) for the project. When you run the above scripts, this data will automatically be retrieved and moved into the working set. This will save a lot of API calls!

## Viewing the Corpus
We've provided our final corpus in the `corpus/ids` file. This provides the IDs of the articles in our corpus. Each one can be appended to `www.theguardian.com` to get to the article on the website. The corresponding downloaded article exists in the data folders, if you can find them (the file names are the MD5 hashes of the IDs, and the IDs are included inside the file).

## Results
Monthly frequency of privacy incidents heatmap:
![monthly heatmap](http://i.imgur.com/RLKAoH6.png)

Monthly frequency of privacy incidents graph:
![monthly graph](http://i.imgur.com/vtyNl4i.png)

Platform frequency of privacy incidents heatmap:
![platform heatmap](http://i.imgur.com/2EavYmd.png)

K-Means clustering on corpus (k=5):
![kmeans](http://i.imgur.com/oohHUdQ.png)

K-Means clustering unique words:

| Color       | Unique Words  | Count      |
|:-----------:|:-------------:|:----------:|
| Red | {website, track, networking, email} | 63 |
| Blue | {surveillance, request, agency} | 35 |
| Green | {setting, control, private, consent} | 37 |
| Yellow | {post, feature, message} | 144 |
| Cyan | {data, protection, right, rule, consumer, case} | 45 |

Hierarchical clustering on corpus:
![monthly heatmap](http://i.imgur.com/TioVgXE.png)

Hierarchical clustering unique words:

| Color       | Unique Words  |
|:-----------:|:-------------:|
| Cyan | {app, post, photo, message, content} |
| Red | {government, surveillance, law, right, agency} |
| Green | {personal, change, setting, control} |

Commit message:

add link to the guardian api

README.md, after:

# Social Media Privacy Corpus
Privacy class project to use machine learning to build a social media privacy corpus. Involves building and evaluating various classifiers and then using statistical methods and clustering to perform analysis on the resulting corpus. Utilizes The Guardian API.

## Contributors
Michael Meli ([mjmeli](https://github.com/mjmeli)) and Kylie Geller ([kgeller](https://github.com/kgeller))

## Requirements
Python 3 only

## API Key
As we use The Guardian API, be sure to request a free API key from [The Guardian Open Platform](http://open-platform.theguardian.com/) if you wish to touch the API. 

## Setup (Ubuntu)
Install system level prerequisites:

    sudo apt-get install build-essential python3-dev python3-tk

Recommend using a virtual environment:

    virtualenv -p python3 venv
    source venv/bin/activate

Make sure you have all `pip` requirements:

    pip install -r requirements.txt

Download English NLP model for `spacy`:

    python -m spacy.en.download

If using anything that touches the API, put API key in a file named api_key:

    echo "API-KEY-HERE" > api_key

## Usage
See the sections below for more information. Also see the `README.md` in the `scripts` folder for even more info.

For a quick look at usage, look at the script `classify.sh`.

### Classifying
Each step of the process is broken up into individual scripts that must be run sequentially. Use the following order:

1. `get_training_data.py`: downloads the training data specified in `training_data/*.ids` - **API access**
2. `preprocess_training_data.py`: preprocess the training data downloaded
3. `build_classifier.py`: builds the classifier
4. `get_test_data.py`: downloads the test data specified in `test_data/ids` - **API access**
5. `preprocess_test_data.py`: preprocess the test data downloaded
6. `classify_test_data.py`: uses the built classifier to classify the downloaded and preprocessed test data

### Analysis
Once the training data is downloaded, you can compare the different classifiers we evaluated:

    python compare_classifiers.py [number of folds for cross-validation]

If you ran through step 6 above, the classification results will be in `data/classified`. The YES results must be moved to the corpus folder and renamed as `ids` for the following step.

    python summarize_corpus.py

## Don't want to download data?
We've provided the data that we downloaded (over 11,000 articles!) for the project. When you run the above scripts, this data will automatically be retrieved and moved into the working set. This will save a lot of API calls!

## Viewing the Corpus
We've provided our final corpus in the `corpus/ids` file. This provides the IDs of the articles in our corpus. Each one can be appended to `www.theguardian.com` to get to the article on the website. The corresponding downloaded article exists in the data folders, if you can find them (the file names are the MD5 hashes of the IDs, and the IDs are included inside the file).

## Results
Monthly frequency of privacy incidents heatmap:
![monthly heatmap](http://i.imgur.com/RLKAoH6.png)

Monthly frequency of privacy incidents graph:
![monthly graph](http://i.imgur.com/vtyNl4i.png)

Platform frequency of privacy incidents heatmap:
![platform heatmap](http://i.imgur.com/2EavYmd.png)

K-Means clustering on corpus (k=5):
![kmeans](http://i.imgur.com/oohHUdQ.png)

K-Means clustering unique words:

| Color       | Unique Words  | Count      |
|:-----------:|:-------------:|:----------:|
| Red | {website, track, networking, email} | 63 |
| Blue | {surveillance, request, agency} | 35 |
| Green | {setting, control, private, consent} | 37 |
| Yellow | {post, feature, message} | 144 |
| Cyan | {data, protection, right, rule, consumer, case} | 45 |

Hierarchical clustering on corpus:
![monthly heatmap](http://i.imgur.com/TioVgXE.png)

Hierarchical clustering unique words:

| Color       | Unique Words  |
|:-----------:|:-------------:|
| Cyan | {app, post, photo, message, content} |
| Red | {government, surveillance, law, right, agency} |
| Green | {personal, change, setting, control} |
